# Rules of Engagement and Governance

This section defines the rules and scope of use of Slack as a persistent chat tool with `[Our Company]`. Existing Policy, Standards, and Procedures documented must be followed with the use of Slack and any of its supporting or integration components. This includes, but is not limited to, Acceptable Use Policy, Privacy Policy, etc. Sensitive data and Intellectual Property should not be stored or uploaded to Slack. Examples of this would be passwords, HIPAA, and PCI-DSS data. Refer to our existing Data Classification and Information Management standards on appropriate locations for housing and distributing data.

## When to use Slack and what to use it for:

1.	Hashing things out quickly - Channels provide a way to quickly hash things out as a team. Things like this are much better served in a channel as opposed to email. Things you might normally address in a meeting room may also qualify as something that can be addressed in channels.
2.	Project chat and collaboration - Project-focused channels are a great way to create a common space for teams to communicate together about a project they're working on. Quickly hashing out ideas, addressing issues, keeping up with the pulse of your clients/industry (RSS integration, for example), all help to create a better project delivery experience.
3.	Escalation rooms - When things go horribly wrong, you need to get people on the same page quickly. More importantly you need a common space where you can keep people informed and work with each other in a close-knit environment through issue resolution.
4.	Team meetings - Slack allows users to create more than just one-line messages. You can also create posts. Posts can contain to-do lists. These are great for running your weekly team meetings and keep folks accountable with action items. The history is also preserved and searchable over time.
5.	Bridge the gaps between remote employees, vendors and clients - Channels can be created to make your team seem smaller and more localized.
6.	Direct messages - Similar to #1 above, sometimes you just need to hash something out quickly with another person. Or multiple people. Both can be done via direct messages (DM). This is similar to the existing functionality we have with Skype for Business, however, sharing files, images, code, links, etc. becomes much easier in Slack DMs.
7.	Audio/video calls and screen sharing - This feature can be used to augment the conversation when folks need to strike up a quick call or share their screens. All of this can be done right in-line with the current conversation using the /call function in Slack.

## What to avoid using Slack for:
1.	Expectations for responding ASAP should not necessarily be expected.
    1.	We do not want to create an ASAP culture. Employees need time to focus and concentrate. Slack should not be viewed as something you need to check and respond to constantly. It should be something you check at regular, planned intervals. Create boundaries people understand and encourage common sense! However, it should be noted that some channels may require more attention than others. For example, the #random channel is not an area that you need to check on frequently as it has nothing particularly relevant to your job. But your project channel on the other hand is absolutely a channel that you should check and be prompt to respond to. The frequency and expectations around responsiveness is something each organization must consider and set the tone for.
    2.	There is a Do Not Disturb (DND) feature in Slack and users also have the ability to customize their notification settings on a channel by channel basis.
2.	Large decisions that have a significant impact on people in some way. Slack is likely not the best place to hash out a very large and complex problem. We recommend long-form messages or documents to share ideas that require thinking before responding. For this, email is a great tool.
3.	Presence and expectations - It should not be assumed that someone should respond to your chat message immediately. Everyone has their own schedule and the need to be focused on their work. Be courteous and respectful of this fact, regardless of the means you're using to chat with them.
4.	Implied consent - Just because you get 3 people to agree in a channel and the other 5 don't chime in doesn't mean you have consent. Some decisions still need to be formalized in some manner. However, smaller decisions with less impact may be just fine. We should follow our current standards for change management. Further, a manager or team lead should always document important decisions and disseminate them in a way that ensures everyone is informed and has a chance to respond with their questions, thoughts, and concerns. Again, email is a great tool for this sort of thing.
5.	Slack is not a substitute for other official systems of record. Any information that is normally captured within an appropriate system of record must continue to be captured as part of our normal operating procedures.
